From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hanselman. It's a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists and Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 99. Recorded live
Wednesday, December 21st, 2011. Support for Hanselman
is provided by Telerik rad
controls, the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com.
In this episode of Hansel
minutiae, Scott talks with Peter Campbell.
So Scott Hanselman, and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. This episode, we end
the year with a whimper
or a bang. I'm not
sure which I was going
to be a handsome Anousha,
which is great for the
people who love them, who
say that there's been a
year, that's gone by since
the last Hanselman issue with
Richard Campbell and then for the
people who hate Hansel, Manisha,
what a great way to
end the year. Nice. How's
it going, Richard? I'm good,
sir. How are you always
a treat and always treat
her well or, well, Christmas
is lovely, lovely, lovely. You're
at the time in your
life with little kids, that
that Christmas is a huge
deal. It's the thing. It
is the biggest thing ever.
There is no larger event
in the world than Christmas.
I have teenage daughters, so
it's a little mellower, although
they make all the cookies
and they do all the
gift wrapping for me. That
was pretty good. I see.
Gift wrapping is the one
thing I enjoy really. It's
a thing, you know, it's
sort of a giant, it's
also happens to be, we're
recording this on the winter
solstice. So happy solstice. Oh,
that's good too. I guess.
Yeah. Longest night of the
year is, you know, for
us optimists, the days only
get longer for here. That's
a good way to look
at it. It's also Saturnalia
don't forget. Saturnalia okay. And
what is Saturday Saturnalia was
the ancient Roman week of
festivals for the sort of
end of the year, the
solstice factor, very importantly into
it. They also did gift
giving towards the end of
that week. Everybody got gifts.
They let candles on the
solstice cause it was the
longest night of the year
and they made up these,
everybody got this little clay
disks with faces on them,
a little circle on it
with a, with a sash
tie to it. And after
a certain ritual, they went
outside and they hung them
on pine trees. I did
not know that she had
all these weird little, you
ever wonder week. The, the
Western version of Christianity has
all of these influences from
all of these other face
and mythologies and, and sort
of ceremonies that we sort
of picked and choose, I
think to assemble our, our
own ritual. Hmm. My ritual
is typically giving the people.
I love tablets for Christmas.
Nice Kindle fires is that
indeed. It was Actually Kindle
fire in fact is what
my mom just got. Oh.
And honestly, I just don't
see it going well. I
just don't see how the
Kindle fire is a good
idea. And I wanted to
know what you thought about
it. Well, we all love
our Kindles, right? Well, I
mean, I have a Kindle
and I think my Kindle's
fantastic. I get absolutely no
complaints. The Kindle is a
brilliant device, right, Right. Size.
I have not read a
paper book. I swear since
pretty much. It's EV I
read constantly I'm 50 to
70 books a year. Everything's
through the Kindle. If I
can't get it on Kindle,
I can't read it. Well,
I've read more since I
got the Kindle than I
think I've ever read. Totally
agree. Yeah. It's huge thing.
But the fire for me
is an interesting device. A
never, ever ignore Amazon. Jeff Bezos
is a genius. He's relentless.
He is consistent. The original
Kindle, if you recall, was,
was under power too. It
wasn't much of a device,
but they'll keep replacing them.
But he, and he said
an interesting price point at
$200, sort of that for
price, this is the cheapest
tablet device you can sort
of make, I think, but
it also is. I've had
a few folks who said,
underpowered, like just not muscular
enough for what people really
want to do. It is
not an iPad. Well, and
that's the thing. People keep
saying that I'm expecting too
much in that I want
109, $9 iPad, right? Because
I mean, say what you
will about the iOS lock-in
and the app store and
you know, Apple in general
and the way they're taking
over the world. But it
is buttery smooth. Like if,
if there's one word you
can use, it is buttery
smooth to describe the weight
work at night, but it
never skips. It never, you
know, nothing, nothing ever goes
wrong from a frame rate
perspective, but when you touch
it, it works. And that's
the difference. The capacitive screen
is just fantastic. Yeah. And
priced accordingly. It costs a
little more to make it
that way. I'd say the
other thing for me, that's
a big deal about the
fire is that it really
speaks to the destruction of
Android in my mind, you
know, Google's making no money
on Android, which really
in that respect. Android is
sort of a spoiler of
markets rather than a competitor
in the markets. They open
source the whole thing. You
know, they play a little
bit of game with their
own device and so forth,
and there's a sort of
certification process. So then it's
just dribs and drabs of
money. I mean, if you
were to talk about the,
you know, things about 2011,
it says, this is sort
of where Google, Pete, and
now they're clearly aren't able
to make money in other
places and it's getting serious
now, but we're a big
thing with the Kindle fire
is that, you know, Bezos
has made no bones about,
we took Android. We've customized.
It, it's a fork in
the code. We're never coming
back. See ya. And that
I'm now thinking the carriers
have got to look at
that and look at what
I do expect fire to
be successful. Eventually, you know,
Moore's law will fix the
fire, right? Give it another
cycle of hardware and it'll,
you know, things will be
better. But I think that
we're going to start seeing,
I mean, Andrew has already
got problems with fracturing, but
you ain't see nothing yet
because you know, Microsoft had
problems with fracturing with wind
CE just cause they allowed
it to run on all
kinds of devices. Did it
this crazy technique for manufacturing,
a version of the iOS
based on the specs of
a given device. Right? And
it just meant that it
was impossible to program for
and Androids guardian further. They're
just handed out the source
code and said, Hey, go
nuts, go crazy, have a
good time. We'll, we'll keep
updating it. And, and then
they found out nobody will
update and carriers will not
update devices. It's ignored in
their genes. And it's actually
against their business model. They'd
much rather sell you a
new device. Their whole business
is built on giving you
a new device every, every
year ever or every other
year, depending on how much
you want to spend. So
they've got no incentive to
ever upgrade anything. And now
we're going to see it
go even further where it's
just like we, in fact,
we're not only not going
to upgrade. We're not, we're
just going to go our
own path down this OSTP
and do what we want
with it. But does that
leave an opening for someone
to do the opposite? I
mean, sometimes in business when
something sucks and people say
that the business is set
up such that it is
going to suck, like there's
nothing, there's no way other
than sucking that is allowed
within the business model, someone
comes along like jet blue
or someone and says what,
you know, being in an
airplane has to suck a
food has to suck. Let's
turn that on its ear.
Yeah. Let's make manager. And
then Virgin America does kind
of takes that and says,
well, it has to be
cheap and suck, you know?
Well, it can be awesome
and fun and be like
a nightclub in the sky
and then they change it.
So couldn't someone come along
and say, we're going to
take old hardware and give
it new life. And that's
part of our business model.
Well, and you know, the
interesting thing about Android is
you have the cult of
geek that can strip and
route these phones and make
them into quite cool phones
to take those old phones
and sort of recycle them.
So I don't know that
anyone's really latched onto that
yet, but the guys I
know they remind me of
Linux people and people that
were excited to build their
own version of an O
onto their machine. There's a
group of people that are
like that with Android phones,
that they get all the
carrier crap off their phone.
They, they get the latest
build. I, you know, off
of the, the main release
line, they pick and choose
the bits. They want to
put it and they build
out this phone and their
phones come back to life.
You know, like they're, they're
much nicer, so it could
fresh install onto a machine,
same sort of effect. So
there is that element of
it, but that is not
how Android is being sold.
Android is being sold by
the carriers and they want
their devices to be unique.
So every one of them
is customized in some respect
and they are replaced, not
upgraded so that, you know,
I see Android's huge uptake
as the response to the
carriers, to the iPhone eight
T and T deal, where
they needed a smartphone and
they got one they could
control. And then the plethora
of hardware, you know, the
hardware vendors are happy because
they learned how to do
small batch runs that are
profitable. They make 20, 30,
50,000 of a given of
a given phone for a
given carrier, properly logoed. And
then they never make it
again cause they don't need
to they'll now they'll go
to the next ref and
the next draft and the
next draft. So wasteful and
it is, and it's also,
you know, Apple goes the
other way because Apple picks
a particular hardware revenue. They
keep it very tight and
the, in the J changed
a lot slower. So they're
somewhat, they're somewhat behind the
curve, but their manufacturing processes
are different because they're not
designed to change quickly. You
know, the side effect of
when you're constantly making a
new phone every quarter is
that you don't densify too
much because you don't have
time and it's not going
to stay. And you keep
things modular. Your chip sets
stay with little connector plugs
and your antennas are modular.
Like all of those things
stay modular cause they need
to be, cause you, you
end up buying a year
supply worth of antennas. They
need to fit in several
different cases. So they're not
perfectly fitted to the case.
So, you know, generally speaking
Android devices, the way they're
made is designed to be
replaced, you know, frequently and
often where the Apple devices
are designed to be held
onto. And again, never upgraded.
It never replay, you know,
modified any way, just replaced
with new ones, just at
a lower cadence. Yeah, definitely.
And, and I I've been
impressed actually, how Apple has
allowed people to upgrade to
the latest version of the
OS for even at this
point, I think even the
3g can have iOS five.
It doesn't, they just basically
turn off different feeds. Right.
And the reality of course,
is that actually helps sell
newer phones. Speaking. You know,
my girls love their 3g
asses with iOS three on
it, but once I was
forward on it, everything went
slower. The pressure went up
on me to replace their
phones. What happens when everyone
has a phone, we just
start piling them and then
building houses on top of
foundations that are based on
trashed phones. Well, yeah, yeah.
You know, the other side
of that is the chemistry
rec recycling phones is incredibly
hard, especially these, these custom
manufactured ones I iPhones, but
they don't disassemble particularly well.
And there really hasn't been
a lot of discussion about
things like the rare earth
minerals that are involved in
building electronics that are getting
harder and harder to get
ahold of. And we're going
to, we're going to hit
a point where, you know,
the value in beryllium is
so high that it's worth
recycling phones just to get
those rare minerals out of
it. Because those right now,
you know, the joke about
rare earth minerals. Yeah. They're
cheap. And then they're really
not all that rare, but
they they're expensive to refine.
And so it's actually a
challenge to keep the flow
off them. We consume all
of these very quick. You
have no idea that nutty
elements that are in these,
these phones and we've got
to deal with them all.
So yeah. As the, as
the phone smartphones start to
push out to the massive
billions, cause they're not there
yet. We're going to have
an interesting problem in dealing
with them, but they do,
they can be recycled downward.
Honestly. I think Android's in
a better position to recycle
down with anybody else's cause
their ability to be modular
and declare off the software
to rebuild. It's a shame
that they don't embrace that.
Cause there's such potential. It's
not Google's focus at all.
Right. I'm not sure. I'm
not sure that Google knows
what Google's focuses. That's right.
It's true. I mean, honestly
I think one could pick
any of the various focuses
that a company could have
and argue that that is
Google's focus. Like I would
have said advertising. Yeah, well
that's their advertising is their
cash cow, right. Which is
really, you know, oriented on
search. And it's the only
thing that's ever made them
any real money. And, and
they've been trying very hard
to start generating revenue and
other places and really not
doing all that well at
it. Like it's, it's, it's
becoming very serious from a,
from a business perspective. It's
like, if you can't diversify
your income, you know, I
noticed the other thing that's
happened is Microsoft after years
of being very worried about
search, you know, set, set
a goal of, we want
to have 30% of the
search market, they made it
this year with the Yahoo
Bing deal is now 30%
of the search market. And
they've started cutting back on
their spending on search. They're
lost. They've never made money
on search with their losses
have gone down and also
notice that, you know, the
senior important people that were
totally focused on being how
now moving into other teams.
So it's like, it almost
seems like Microsoft has achieved
the goal. They set out
to achieve that, that sort
of 30% market penetration, but
we've all I'm used to
Microsoft. You remember Brian, Valentine's
quote about office. We feel
that office should have its
fair share of the marketplace
and its fair shares 100%.
Well. And you know, that,
that I think is the,
the insider's view of Microsoft.
They're a relentless beast that
wants to completely dominate things,
but it doesn't seem that
way in search. It doesn't
mean that they're just failing.
Cause they, you know, they
struggled for a long time,
but they've genuinely gained market
share, but you seeing them
start to cut back on
their search bending, you know,
that, that, you know, near
billion dollar losses at a
30% market place, are they
happy there that's good enough
that makes the difference or
are they also perceiving that
search is becoming less relevant?
Don't spend billions trying to
win a market that ultimately
doesn't matter. That's interesting. You
know, and I also wonder
how they will continue how
companies in general, but Google
specifically will continue to send
free stuff out there into
the world. And we all
count on it. And the
longer we count on it,
the harder it's going to
be for them to get
rid of it. For example,
there, they're sending Google maps
tiles around to everyone For
free. Yup. And we just
continue to suck it up
one day. That's not going
to be free, you know,
and already they're starting to
charge for, for services starting
to shut services down. Yeah.
Well and look at how
much money Google has spent
on, I mean, think about
the Google cars running around
with the cameras on them,
all of that data they've
gathered like they spend tremendous
of money on these free
services they have to, and
as this tightening comes in,
you know, the Google gear
is always tight technologies. They're
starting to shut down because
they're just costing money and
not succeeding. They they're going
to start the pressure to
start generating other revenue means
it's going to force them
to take things that are
actually popular and successful and
to make them cost. Well,
definitely if you're going to
build a startup and if,
if you, if someone's investing
in it and they're going
to look at your, your
fundamentals and they realize that
the entire system is based
on you using some free
service from, from anyone, from
Google, from Microsoft, from whoever
that's going to be a
problem. Well, I think there's
a fundamental conflict of interest
at the moment. You're generating
revenue off the back of
somebody else's free service. We
need to have a conversation.
Well, so that is actually
an interesting point. It brings
me to the whole Zegna
thing, the Facebook gaming people,
everyone thought that was going
to be like the amazing
hot IPO of the year.
And then it, you know,
it went up and up
and there's like, wait a
second. Every cent of their
revenue is based entirely on
Facebook. Yep. Which is a
free thing that makes money
off of advertising. Yeah. I
mean, they're literally like a
barnacle on like Facebook's butt
and people thought that that
was a valid business. I
would argue this, you know,
one of the things that
Facebook trades on heavily is
their mind space occupation right
there that it, I just
saw a graph come out
where they showed that, that
when it comes to spending
time on social media, Facebook
is, is 10 times the
size of everybody else combined,
compared to LinkedIn or tumbler.
And these other things it's
all Facebook time. And my
automatic thought was that's game-playing
right. That is not quote
unquote social media. What's the
huge time sink in Facebook
is Zynga are the game
players, but those are not
good advertising candidates. Either people
who are farming stuff in
Farmville, aren't looking at your
ads. They've learned to block
them out. I mean, I
think a general computer advertising
isn't working because people's brains
are programmed to not see
them. Right. And to the
point where if you actually
put something important in a
space that people normally think
is an ad space, they
will never find it From
a UX perspective. You're saying
like you design your system
and you accidentally it's like
putting something crucial, like the
speedometer in a car right
in the blind spot. Yeah.
If you put, if you
put an incredibly important button
of any kind down the
right side of your webpage,
nobody will see it because
it's where the ads go.
And people have learned to
simply block that out the
right hand edge of my,
my browser window is full
of crap. It's never important.
And I'm Ken and I've
literally had to, we would
experiment with UX designs for
different things. And we put
something important there said, you
know, go find this, can't
see it. Point to it.
I thought that was an
ad. Yes you did. So
did everybody else? It's invisible.
Well, it's advertisement, but advertising
itself as a, as a
strategy is all about consumption.
And you know, I was
thinking the wife and I
are keeping our Christmas pretty
or giving we've kept our
Christmas very low key. I
mean, I think the boys
are getting like four toys
each and they're like action
figures. You know? I mean,
it's, it's very local. I
think I'm getting two things
and she's got two and
the boys get for each
and it's like, you know,
two transformers and two action
figures. So from a consumption
perspective, I think our total
outlay for Christmas was like
$150 this year. Well, and,
and with young boys sleep,
they still rather play with
the box anyway. Right. Well,
there's that, but they also
are kind of, they're wired
to, we know we go
to Goodwill and we get
toys, toys, or just something
that you don't need to
buy. Right. We'll build stuff
out of wood or plastic
or, And you may even
enjoy that more. Right. That's
the process of creation is
far more engaging than, than
hand being handed something that
has a particular play structure
to it. Right. Right. But
I guess my point is
that consumption. We were sitting
around a couple of days
ago. We're like, you know,
we don't need to go
to the mall and get
anything, you know, we've got
to, we're very lucky. We've
got a computer, we've got
a TV, we've got lots
of books. We've got a
bunch of toys and use
toys and hand me down
toys. And we got wood
that we can build toys
with. Yeah. So we don't
really need anything. So I'm
not a very good consumer,
I guess, is the point
that I'm making. And when
advertising is all based on
getting you to rush out
to buy the new widget,
then it's, it, it makes
me question advertising itself as
a, as a business model.
And I've wondered for years,
how, how much longer before
Google ran through all of
the people that were paying
for ad words and not
getting back the sales that
were necessary. Exactly. I mean,
there's always, there's always the
anecdotal cases, the folks that
are really making it, and
they've done a good job
of basically overwhelming any other
way to find sites. But
you know, the, the alternative
that is stuff like Etsy
and eBay, and like, if
you want to sell stuff
online, there are mechanisms and
Google search sometimes works for
that, but it's been games
so heavily, that's been exploited
so badly that it's becoming
not the way to look
for stuff. That's not how
you try and find things
anymore. Do what do we
sell when there's nothing else
to sell? Yeah. We really
don't need a lot, you
know. Alright. For the first
time I've ever seen you
speechless. Yeah. And think about
what we sell that it's
amazing how invaluable valuable attention
actually is. Well, it is,
it is. I realized it's
weird. You know, my, my
girls are literally at the
edge of, of moving on,
right. They're turning 20 and
those sorts of things. And
the thing that was most
important that I was observing
their behavior at Christmas, making
cookies, the ritual of making
these, the simple sugar cookies
that they've made since they
were little girls with their
mom and glazing them and
the sort of crafty art
of making pretty snowflakes. I
think that the hip cookie
for them this year was
they made a whole bunch
of link try force cookies
that they made their own
templates for and the younger
daughters into curling. So she
made a whole bunch of
curling rock cookies to, to
give to her curling friends.
But you know, not the,
the favorite ritual of Christmas
is not an expensive ritual.
Yeah. And, and I think
that that's where my wife
and I take our, our,
our hands is we pay
for experiences rather than stuff
like, you know, there's, there's
actually a lot of interesting
blogs online about minimalism that,
that, that are like, they
literally are just blogs that
show you how to live
on as little stuff as
possible. And then there's different
people who have these challenges
to like, you know, I
own 100 things like, and
he'll list out the 100
things that he owns, like
total, total in his entire
life. And another guy will
come out, Oh, I've got
75 things and here are
the 75 things. And then
they argue about like, whether
they count underwear as a
collective or whether they actually
count each individual underwear, Is
it a pair of socks,
one item or socks and
item. Exactly. But people go
around and around about all
this stuff that they need.
So like, when I was
watching all the black Friday
sales, it's like, you know,
I like my gadgets. There's
not much as the next
guy, but once you have
the basics, I don't see
how the system's going to
work. So taking this back
up to the internet discussion
when eyeballs and consumption are
the biz on the business
model, does, is that how
sustainable is that? Yeah. And
well, and I think it's
because it speaks to an
unsustainable model in the first
place. And, and ultimately, I
think it's losing traction bit
by bit, you know, one
of the interests in pushing
Western culture into other parts
of the world is that
Westerners are getting tired of
Western culture and it's not
actually a good sales vehicle
anymore. So let's go sell
in India. There's lots of
people. And they think Western
culture is kind of cool.
Yeah. Which is interesting. So
what is Western culture look
like when it's, when Westerners
are done with it and
everyone else is adopted it.
And so exactly, and it
all more like that. And
looking again at my girls
and that attitude and sort
of viewpoint of their generation,
this, these 20 somethings, you
know, they could S they
are a lot simpler and
a lot less consumptive all
around. I really enjoyed a
book called the third industrial
revolution. Hmm. You spoke to
this idea of more of
a paradigm shift in the
way we do things in
the Bay. One of the
accesses on that was not
only reduced consumption, but also
getting away from the widely
distributed model of power degeneration
or the centralized model of
power generation into local power
generation, which the current grid,
you know, over on dotnet
rocks, we've been doing this
series of shows called geek
out shows. And we're building
up to a set of
conversations around clean energy and,
and smart grids and things
like that. We just did
a show specifically on electricity
where just, I wanted to
set some groundwork around them.
Here's what I understand about
the electrical grid and how
the whole thing works. And,
you know, the industrial revolution
was this idea that we
could start harnessing power sources
for mechanical energy. And that
changed things. It made cities
really useful that you needed
the concentration of people in
order to, to operate these
factories. And you could produce
a lot more stuff. And
we've had a sort of
second revolution in the technology
space where, you know, now
we had machines that were
able to communicate faster and
so on. And this third
industrial revolution talks more of
getting away from the centralization
of these resources that, you
know, power generation specifically is
the big one. You go
to where the oil is,
where the coal is, where
the natural gas is, where
the uranium is. And that's
a very valuable resource that
you exploit and then bring
out to power plants to
generate power in these large
power generation facilities, because they're
expensive and complex and then
distribute power long range. And
we know that when you
distribute power long range is
not a particularly efficient and
you can generate power locally
with far less impact because
of the technological evolutions. Now
so much better solar cells,
like they've just now got
a lab solar cell that
is exceeding a hundred percent
yield because they're actually able
to take a given photon
and have it trip a
number of other electrons in
the past. So, you know,
instead of just getting a
one photons where the energy
you're getting several out of
the given photons, really interesting
technologies, you know, suddenly solar
cells are not this terribly
inefficient thing. They generate an
awful lot of power and
you can put them on
every roof and you can
start consuming all that power
locally. And you get into
this smart grid model where
I share my power with
my neighbor, that, that we
don't need the larger grid
in order to feed power
to everybody. There's a lightweight
grid that covers some of
that. And, you know, bit
by bit, the cost of
consumption goes down of, I
think the post Western society
starts to look like that
we live in these tighter
collective neighborhoods that we like
that are largely self sustaining.
And we trade amongst each
other in a very peer
to peer mindset. And I
feel like as software people,
we understand this better than
just about anybody. I'm talking
to electrical people who are
trying to get to building
a smart grid, a peer
to peer grid, and they're
baffled by it. Cause they've
just never thought peer to
peer. It's a very weird
way to think, but, But
that's where that's where networks
were supposed to go. There
was the whole personal area
network idea and people were
supposed to, and I don't
think that really ever happened.
I mean, too much concern
about security. And, and so
no one ever figured out
a way to have, you
know, kind of self joining
secure networks where you could
talk to someone's computer just
by the fact that you
were near them. Yeah. But
what's something like power that
it's less, less important do
they, they, they set it
up ahead of time. You
mentioned Bluetooth. Cause I think
Bluetooth is one of those
technologies. You just never got
over its own complexity. That
if we're, I think with
the personal area network, we'll
have a resurgence, but I
think it'll be more wifi.
Like, because as wifi has
evolved, its power consumption levels
have gone down. It speaks
IP, which we have a
very known set of security
models around and we're maturing.
You know, that I wouldn't
surprise me at all. We
see Bluetooth go away and
you see a wireless done
with IPV six IP sec
style network negotiation, and much
simpler, cleaner patterns of security
for that. And this idea
of this, this, this direction
that the conversation has gone
in the context of power,
back to what I was
saying about how my wife
and I pay for experiences.
I think that the, if
you're trying to sell molecules,
it's gonna cost you because
it takes energy to push
molecules around the earth. But
if you sell electrons, you
can make those a lot
easier. It's always cheaper to
sell electrons. And it is
molecules. Well, very, very beginning.
You and I were talking
about how we buy a
lot of books on Kindle
and we watch a lot
of movies on iPads and
things like that. Yeah. It
seems like those are experiences
powered by electrons that require
minimal amounts of molecules to,
to make that seems like
a reasonable business model. Yeah.
Just see Microsoft just made
the announcement that 2012 will
be their last CES. They're
not coming to CES at
2013 and it's maybe a
bit of an extrapolation for
me, but you would get
back to stop moving molecules,
just move electrons because the
ability to do remote presence
is getting so good. You
know, the, the Google plus
now talking about, you can
do the eight way video
conference and stream it to
everybody. Right. So now this
idea of w w why
exactly are we having to
gather for these things? I
mean, I think we're getting
back to, I think the
look at the code camp
surge that we only let
us gather for the things
that actually matter to gather
for, right. If we were
just doing information exchange, we
can do that online a
lot more efficiently. And finally,
the technology is getting to
a point where it's close
enough to presence that unless
you specifically want the elements
of presence, you could do
it remotely. Well, I was,
I was on a mailing
list recently. I'm not sure
if you're still on it
as well, where someone said,
I think it was a
guy in New Zealand who said
that his company has gotten
tired of the, something like
80 to $100,000 a month.
They're spending flying people all
over the world from, you
know, kind of, kind of
a far away part of
the world. And he's like,
we're going to go and
spend a 10th of that
on really good cameras and
high bandwidth and work on
presence and trying to make
presence happen. See if we
can cut our, our travel
budget in half or do
nothing even better. I mean,
that's where the interesting, the
idea that someone would change
their consulting business and see
if they could come up
with a way, like, would
a business tolerate a virtual
consultant that they could push
around. Yeah. And I think
generally businesses tolerate that, which
is successful, right? Like if
you can actually get the
problem solved mean my challenge
as a guy who does
an awful lot of consulting
is I've come to recognize.
I spent a day in
an all day board, you
know, executive level meeting where
the actual valuable part of
the meeting where the smoke
breaks, right? Two or three
of the most senior guys
in that room, all smoked.
And every two or three
hours, every couple of hours,
they needed a smoke break
and I don't smoke, but
I went down, stood up
wind of them and had
the most valuable conversations of
the whole. I realized I
come back and I'm like,
I built a whole day
and I do charge a
ton because I don't really
want to fly to Europe
to do this. And I
realized, you know, my total
primary value con contribution could
be K became five, 10
minute conversations. That's where we
actually move that company forward
and making decisions. But then
the question is, can you
virtually go to Europe to
get your five, 10 minute
conversation? Right. Well, and the
challenge there is the informal
conversation, the conversation around the
cigarette, when there's less noise,
less formality, you know, outside,
that's the part that nothing
is recorded on. That's the
part that, you know, that's
not where the hardware is.
It is completely, you know,
what do I actually sell?
Why did that, why was
that effective? That's those points
of trust. Yeah. This, this
sort of intimate moment of
trust. Like you, you you've
heard me do the formal
presentation. You're, you're impressed. We
swayed some folks there and
so forth, but you know,
these are the things, you
know, that you're starting to
trust me, watch for these
things. Right. I know part
of that whole dynamic was
me predicting the next stage
of the conversation. I suspect
we're going to go here
and next watch for these
things, right. And you start
shape helping shape their viewpoint
and what they can see
of where we're going in
the debate and they get
more comfortable with, okay. You
know, I understand more, I
can move things forward more
and we actually get some
results. I don't know that
you can capture that remotely.
I think I've may know
I've counted on the intimate
moments of meals of sort
of side conversations, those sorts
of things, to get results
for companies for a long
time. Right. I think though
that I'm assuming this, but
maybe 120 years ago when,
before, you know, during the,
the emergence of the telephone
people probably didn't use the
telephone is a very intimate
discussion place. That wasn't a
place where you connected, but,
but all of us who
grew up in the seventies
or so remember spending hours
and hours and hours, the
phone, and, you know, many
people got, you know, deep,
deep into relationships where if
you counted the number of
hours spent in person versus
the number of hours on
the phone, they might realize
that, wow, our whole base
relationships based on talking on
the phone more than it
is being in person, No,
that's not happening with my
kids. And I sure won't
happen with your kids, But
is it happening on texts
and on Skype, They get,
they found another vehicle. Exactly.
Right. And I, of course,
I also am a big
believer in the idea that
children rise to your and
competence level as a parent.
Right. I was prepared. I
laid extra phone lines. I
was ready for teenage girls
on the phone all the
time did not happen. Right.
But so then the question
is when you're dead, because
you're so, so very old
and, and then the new
breed of consultant comes out
and do, you know, 20,
30, 40 years from now,
are they going to be
able to have those kinds
of intimate discussions and, and,
and connections that we currently
swear would only be possible
in person in person. And
they're going to do them
on Skype, or they're going
to do them on, you
know, in some other way.
And the thing is that
we really just don't know
yet. We don't know, but
it is logical progression. Yeah.
Even though it feels completely
counterintuitive. And I think both
you and I, given our
generations would say, you know,
maybe for the young people,
but I'm still going to
have to fly to Europe
three times a year. Talk
about the, I do this
talk when I'm talking to
parents about their kids on
the internet, it says, we
are immigrants. They are natives,
right. We remember a time
before and they don't, this
is their normal form of
communication has always been the
normal form of communication. They
know nothing else. We don't
remember a time before the
telephone. They don't remember a
time before the internet. And
so there as natives, they
simply treat it differently. And
I, and I bring that
description up for parents just
to say, the reason you
see it differently is that
you will always see it
differently. You need to come
at this as an immigrant.
You cannot come at it
as a, as a native.
And that's fine. As I
think we're hitting our, that
same sort of limitation in
our working style that as,
as technologically advanced, as we
might be, we are still
immigrants. And that later generation
will be the natives and
they will be, you know,
it isn't me. That's the
problem. It's the guy I'm
talking to. That's interesting. That
brings up an interesting question.
I think I might explore
in a future, a future
show. I've talked about the
idea that, that even though
I'm, you know, I've been
a professional engineer for almost
20 years, I still kind
of feel like an amateur.
Yeah. And I feel like
I don't really understand it.
And well, I've got that
kind of classic get off
my lawn attitude towards some
of these young folks, the
20 year olds and 22
year olds that seem just
unspeakably talented. And, and my
get off my lawn, young
punk weight, you know, talk
to me in 20 years
and you've got experience kind
of a attitude is really
based on not just envy,
but my re my by
rejection of the fact that
they probably are just simply
that much better, because they
were always here. Right. I
mean, I wasn't programming at
six. How could I possibly
possibly compete with someone who
was, Yeah. They also are
only 20 something. So they
haven't been programming that long.
You know, I wrote my
first line of code at
10. And so, you know,
it's been a long time
too. Yeah. Also, there's an
advantage to that depth of
viewpoint, but there's also a
distraction to it. I am
stuck in some old fashioned
ways. I am prone to
writing stored procedures. You know,
like those are skills that
I have a hard time
shaking off because, because I
counted on for so long,
they so deeply related to
my success. And now, you
know, in later life, these
guys aren't hampered by that
baggage. And a lot of
ways it's, you know, comparison
between the iPad and the
windows tablet, right? Because the
iPad was a blank slate.
It had to be all
new, what they built. And
they only focused on the
first things they would need.
And, you know, you get
a little lack of weight
there. And windows has to
take advantage of the depth
of features they've got and
sort of filter them down.
So they're usable so that
it will be ultimately a
useful product. And in some
ways, be able to cover
more things sooner because it's
got that framework behind it.
But it's, it's two different
approaches. The thing, I think
we're seeing the same thing
in the younger generation of
software developers. They just don't
come with that same baggage.
And the other hand, we
provide an awful lot of
value with the background. Like
I'm very, I was reading
a great piece on the
death of specifications that nobody
cares about the specs on
machines anymore. And they assumption
was, is because there's now
a diversity. That is all
about the experience, right? That,
that now, you know, you
don't care what I O
S iPad is running. You
don't care how many, what
the CPU speed is. All
those things that, that was
a construct when there was
only one operating system that
was part of a great
conspiracy when everybody was running
XP, the only way you
could market your device was
to talk about how many
CPU cycles it had. Right.
And I completely reject that
argument because I remember a
time before XP as well.
You know, we cared, we
didn't care about certain specifications
in the early days of
computing as well. You know,
nobody knew what your processor
speed was and your terrorist,
80, you know why there
was only one speed. It
was one megahertz right Matter.
And nothing has changed in
the Intel space. We've been
at three gigahertz for years
now. We're probably going to
be there for awhile. So
different direction. They went through
when they went to the
P for architecture, they got
close to four gigahertz. And
then the thing started melting
down. It was too hot
and so forth. And they
actually went back to the
P three architecture, right? Like
that we ma Intel is,
want to talk about that,
that whole P four line
got abandoned. It was a
mistake. Right. And it was
part of it, I think
is because Intel had no
competitor for so long. And
they got fat and lazy
and built a bad design
that never really went to
where it's supposed to go.
They went back to the
P three that ultimately evolved
into the core two. And
this whole line speed is
speed. But I think the
real reason that specs have
died is that stuff's fast
enough that, you know, the
only difference between your machine
and my machine is your
machine computed that in half
a second in mind, computing
in a second. Oh boy.
Right? Like it just doesn't
matter anymore. The hardware sophisticated
enough. Now we care about
experience because we're just trying
to bring up the sophistication
of the software to match
the hardware. We don't think
about whether or not a
machine. It has the computing
resources to actually do anything
anymore. It does. They all
do. I wrote an editorial,
looking at the specs on
my, my focus, my Samsung
focus, wind phone seven. And
it's basically its specs are
the same specs as the
minimum specs for windows eight.
It's a one gigahertz processor.
It needs a minimum of
a gig of Ram over
the phone's got eight gigs
around and it needs direct
X nine GPU. The phone's
got everything that, that windows
eight is specifying. I think
you just blew my mind
there. That's interesting. I think
there's some certain differences of
course, in arm versus Intel
and all that kind of
stuff. But your point is,
your point is taken though.
There's, there's a ridiculous amount
of power that we're not
using. Right. Well, and because
the problem here is not
power it's sophistication Dean, right.
It is how we utilize
that software. Well, and how
we, you know, more long
time, Microsoft counted on Moore's
law to let the hardware
be fast enough to run
the software. They were going
to ship in 18 months.
Yeah. Right. So whenever you
demo, you know, this is
one of the reasons that
Microsoft got the reputation of
stuff being slow, because whenever
they were showing you the
later stuff, they were showing
it on previous generation hardware,
and it wasn't fast enough
for what they're trying to
do. But at, from Vista
onward, they went the other
way. They've been lightening up
the, the, the operating system
over and over and over
again, because the goal no
longer is I need faster
hardware to run this well,
it's I need cheaper hardware
to run this the same.
And the other side of
Moore's law is not just
that stuff will be twice
as fast in 18 months.
It's that the stuff you're
buying right now will be
half the price in 18
months, because it's fast enough.
Now I don't need to
go faster. I need it
less expensive. You know, the
big debate around the only
windows tablets I've seen so
far, 1300 boxes as well
as exact same laptop based
on Moore's law is six
99 in a year. Yeah.
I wrote that article recently
about an SSD. And I
probably could have read it
with fewer words, but the
general idea was that before
you go and buy a
new computer, just get an
SSD because chances are the
computer you have that's three
or four years old. Will
you be just fine? Yep.
You just need to get
an SST. Although, honestly, I
can't tell you how many
times people said I'm going
to buy a new computer.
What should I do with
the old computer? And I'm
like, before go get your
new computer, give me your
old computer. And all I've
done is we've done a
full re-install and say, here's
your old computer again? They're
like, Oh my God, this
is great. Why did I
buy a new one as
is because software is fatty
food and your computer needed
an angioplasty, right? Like it's
just a little rotten. And
so we cleaned it up
and off. It goes again,
but you're right. They, you
know, terms of pure bang
for the buck. The only
thing that breaks on computers
anymore really are the hard
drives That those are the
things that move, the things
that move That's spinning stuff,
right? Fans and hard drives.
So you swap with an
SSD. That problem goes away.
You know, you could still
make a slow machine out
of SSD, but in terms
of just a simple win,
that's a simple win. And
it's very convenient that we
had, you know, two of
the big Western digital factories
get flooded. And so the
hard drive prices have tripled
and suddenly SSDs don't look
that expensive and you can
actually buy them. It's hard.
Drives are hard to come
by, right? Yeah. Yeah. Well,
I think we need, I
think we need to, we
need to leave it here
at the end of the
year, our, our now annual
minutia with Richard Campbell. I know
we could go on and
on and on for hours
while we do. We do.
We do all at the
time. I thank you so
much for your time. And
this has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.